CHAPTER IV.
I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you, that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith
ye are called, with all lowliness and meekness, with long suffering, forbearing one another
in love, endeavouring to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace.
There is one body, and one spirit, even as ye are called, in one hope of your calling,
one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all,
and in you all. But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of
Christ. Wherefore, he saith, when he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto
men. Now, that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended first into the lower parts of the
earth? He that descended is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might
fill all things. And he gave some apostles, and some prophets, and some evangelists, and some
pastors and teachers, for the perfecting of the saints for the work of the ministry, for the
edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of
the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,
that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of
doctrine, by the slight of men, and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive.
But speaking the truth in love, may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ,
from whom the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplyeth,
according to the effectual working in the measure of every part, maketh increase of the body,
unto the edifying of itself in love. This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord,
that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk, in the vanity of their mind, having the
understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them,
because of the blindness of their heart, who, being past feeling, have given themselves over
to lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness, but ye have not so learned Christ.
If so be that ye have heard him, and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus,
that ye put off concerning the former conversation, the old man, which is corrupt,
according to the deceitful lusts, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that ye put on
the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness, wherefore putting
away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbour, for we are members one of another.
Be ye angry, and sin not, let not the sun go down upon your wrath, neither give place to the devil,
let him that stole steal no more, but rather let him labour, working with his hands the thing which
is good, that he may have to give to him that needeth. Let no corrupt communication proceed out
of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the
hearers, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption.
Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamour and evil speaking be put away from you,
with all malice, and be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another,
even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you.
Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children, and walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us,
and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savour.
But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you,
as becometh saints, neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting which are not convenient,
but rather giving of thanks. For this ye know, that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor
covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God
upon the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them, for ye were
sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as children of light, for the fruit
of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving what is acceptable unto the
Lord. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them.
For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret.
But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light, for whatsoever doth
make manifest is light. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead,
and Christ shall give thee light. See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools,
but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Wherefore be ye not unwise,
but understanding what the will of the Lord is. And be not drunk with wine wherein is excess,
but be filled with the Spirit, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual
songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all things
unto God, and the Father, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting yourselves one to another
in the fear of God. Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord.
For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church,
and he is the saviour of the body. Therefore as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the
wives be to their own husbands in every thing. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also
loved the church and gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of
water by the word, that he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot
or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. So ought men to love
their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself, for no man ever yet hated
his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church. For we are members
of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother,
and shall be joined unto his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery,
but I speak concerning Christ and the church. Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular
so love his wife even as himself, and the wife see that she reverence her husband.
CHAPTER VI Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honour thy father and mother,
which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest
live long on the earth. And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up
in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Servants, be obedient to them that are your
masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, and singleness of your heart,
as unto Christ, not with eye-service, as men-pleasers, but as the servants of Christ,
doing the will of God from the heart, with goodwill doing service, as to the Lord and not to men,
knowing that whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same shall he receive of the Lord,
whether he be bond or free. And ye masters, do the same things unto them, forbearing threatening,
knowing that your master also is in heaven, neither is there respect of persons with him.
Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.
Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers,
against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.
Wherefore, take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand
in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about
with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the
preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall
be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation,
and the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. Praying always with all prayer,
and supplication in the spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance, and supplication
for all saints. And for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly,
to make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in bonds, that therein
I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak. But that ye also may know my affairs, and how I do,
Tychicus, a beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, shall make known to you all things,
whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that ye might know our affairs,
and that ye might comfort your hearts. Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith from God the
Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity.
Amen.